DRAFT ONLY: DO NOT SIGN THIS YET
================================

This petition is in **draft form only**.  Please do not sign this yet.
We started drafting this as a private group of small individuals, but we
decided to move to a transparent method ourselves and it's here, but
it's not ready to sign (even though there are actually pending sign
merge request, we will get back to those folks when we're ready).

## Petition to Open Source Initiative to Publish 2025 Board of Directors Election Results

We, the undersigned, petition the Open Source Initiative (OSI) to release
the complete and accurate results of its 2025 Board of Directors
Individual and Affiliate elections. We call for this transparency out
of concern that OSI's mishandling of its recent elections has damaged
the organization's credibility and reputation.

OSI relies *entirely* on community deference and respect in order to
retain its role as an authority that promotes Open Source and the
consistent use of the term "Open Source".  So, it is of utmost
importance that OSI repair its integrity with its members and the wider
community.

OSI elections have been a key component of its governance since 2012,
when it shifted toward having a board primarily elected by individual
and affiliate members. Although only advisory in strict legal terms,
these elections are vital to OSI's community focus and standing. For all
previous years, OSI has committed to running elections according to best
practices and has honored the election results.

The 2025 election was conducted using the OpaVote service. In this
process, OpaVote emails each voter a unique URL leading to a formal
ballot that runs proprietary JavaScript and appears as follows:

- [an unmarked ballot](https://codeberg.org/OSI-Concerns/election-results-2025/src/branch/main/osi-2025-unmarked-ballot-example.png)
- [a filled in ballot](https://codeberg.org/OSI-Concerns/election-results-2025/src/branch/main/osi-2025-marked-ballot-example.png)

OpaVote provides a function to publish the
results to voters over email. Instead, OSI
downloaded the ballot data and then altered it to remove three
candidates and all votes they received. OSI subsequently published these
altered election results. These results do not represent a legitimate
election between the remaining candidates. For many reasons, an
actual election between them would likely have produced notably
different vote counts.

OSI's [stated reason for the
intervention](https://opensource.org/blog/announcing-the-new-directors-of-osi-board)
is that three candidates (whom they did not acknowledge by name) failed
to satisfy a requirement to sign the OSI board agreement. However, **the
requirement that all candidates sign the agreement was added at the end
of the 2025 election — *after* all voting had concluded, but *before*
results were announced.**

In the past, as with comparable elections for other organizations,
signing of the board agreement took place only with the elected
directors after the election.

In any normal election, results are published transparently—regardless
of whether some candidates withdraw, die, or are disqualified for any
reason. Once a candidate has been placed on the ballot, the only way to
respect the voting electorate is to count and report the votes as
marked. A trustworthy election cannot have rules changed during the
election process, and the voting must be tabulated and reported
accurately.

Any tampering with elections erodes community trust. Note that this
concern is not a legal one. Even tampering with informal polls on a
forum can severely harm an organization's reputation. **By adding
requirements *during* an election process and altering votes, OSI has
damaged its credibility** with the membership and wider community.

The three candidates removed from the vote tally were Richard Fontana (a
former OSI director), Bradley Kuhn, and Bentley Hensel. Kuhn and
Fontana's campaign platform sought various changes to OSI, including
revising a provision of the OSI board member agreement that requires
members to "support publicly all Board decisions," due to concerns that
it is overly broad. The existing process for joining the OSI board would
have included the possibility to discuss the board member agreement with
the OSI board before signing. The newly announced requirement to sign
within a few days after voting closed eliminated that possibility. An
[article at
*LWN*](https://lwn.net/SubscriberLink/1014603/ac0cfc0a74755501/) states
that "a cynical person might conclude that the last-minute requirement
to sign the agreement was to disqualify one or both" and covers
additional concerning details about this election. Bentley Hensel, on
the other hand, was simply busy and didn't respond promptly enough to
the sudden new requirement.

With this petition, we do not endorse any particular candidates or
policy positions. We are community members who care about OSI's mission
and its standing in the world. We wish to see OSI thrive in good
standing.

To restore its credibility and reputation, we call on OSI to immediately
release the unaltered election totals, acknowledge the harm this
situation has caused to the community, and credibly recommit to working
with the community on all steps necessary to repair lost trust.

## Petition Details

This is an open petition. The signed document is available on Codeberg
[here](https://codeberg.org/OSI-Concerns/election-results-2025), and
supporters are encouraged to submit their signature through a merge
request. If you have a relationship with OSI (e.g., as a Member, Former
Director, etc.), please indicate your relationship to OSI in your
signature.

We ask that OSI Affiliates have their Affiliate Representative sign on
behalf of the organization; they and other Affiliate
employees/volunteers can of course sign separately on their own behalf
as well.

Respectfully,

SIGNATORIES HERE
